A question from Facebook user Ton Y Dong Co: "
Is it true that spirits
follow and protect us, for example, when
we have an accident but only suffer minor injuries,
or when our business is not going well? I respectfully
ask for your answer. Amitabha
Buddha." Respectfully, before I started practicing the Dharma, I read
in the Sutra of the Bell and the Heart Sutra that
all major business ventures
in the world have the support of
celestial beings. If a place does
not have the support of celestial beings, that place will not
succeed. At that time, I didn't fully understand
the support of celestial beings, so I
put it aside. Later, after
practicing for a while, I realized that
this was true. That's why I often say
that if you are involved in business with a
large number of people, you should direct your
heart towards the Dharma because celestial beings support the
Dharma. You must diligently study, observe the
precepts, and make offerings. When you make
offerings, you should also dedicate your heart to the
celestial beings so that they may increase their merit
and their opportunities for further practice.  Then they will
support us in doing more good things,
not because we desire
that support, but because it's an inevitable cause and effect. When
we do business,
we also hope for success because
that success allows the money to
benefit everyone. In
our business, we all
hope for support from ourselves and others, along with the teachings of
Buddhism, so that
brings benefits. Regarding
the concept of the underworld, according to
our worldly understanding, anything invisible is called the underworld, and anything visible is
called the yang. For example, anything that rises to the
surface of the earth is called yang, and anything that doesn't
rise is called the underworld. Therefore,
people
think of the underworld as living
underground, but not all beings in the realm of
ghosts and spirits; they manifest
around us, not just living
underground like a
corpse.
So, let's understand what the underworld is: the underworld is what
we see.  According to
worldly beliefs, it's called the underworld,
but the celestial beings also protect it; it's not the
underworld. Some spirits are deceased people; they do
n't reside in the
underworld. We just can't see them.
They reside in their own realm, the realm of
spirits and ghosts. Whether they participate in the Six Harmonies practice
or not, most people in the
Golden National Club who practice the Six Harmonies
know. You know how to make offerings, and
then the karma is eliminated. That's
also called support. For example, if I
owe someone money and after I repay it,
they don't come to beat me up, that's a
lot of support for me. If they
came to beat me up, I would die. (From the Sutra of the
Jewels, the
Sutra of the Swallows, a
passage is quoted). Therefore, all beings should
focus their hearts and cultivate compassion
towards all humankind, day and
night. They bring offerings, so don't be greedy.
Help them participate in the practice.
This sutra has a first part that
talks about us giving alms and making
offerings, whether to the realms on earth or
in the void.  When they receive those things,
they all have the intention to share them with us.
Therefore, protection is something found in the
scriptures and in reality. This
belongs to the spiritual matter. I'm just
sharing a few small stories. There are
people who do very well in business, but
then they face
competition. When they compete, they start to
decline. In that decline,
they also report to the Buddha and see that
they have groups that guide them and
protect them. The person
they are competing with also has a group that protects them, which is
called merit.
But within that merit, there must also be people and a
group that guides them. For example,
we say we have merit.
If we have merit, we must also
have people who come to help us. That's what we
call a person with merit. It can't just be
that merit stays in one place, "I have
merit, I always meet good people who
help me," right? That's a person with
merit,
and that person who helps is what
we call a group of people who guide them.  The association only
helps oneself, and in
this spiritual realm, it's the same. When Yen
sees some people who ask for
her help, she sees that they also have
members of the association, but in the
process of competition, the person supporting them on the
other side has
more power, meaning they have
more merit. The person supporting
her has less merit, and
therefore her own merit is also reduced. So,
she doesn't compete fiercely. That's why
Yen tells that person to make
offerings to the Three Jewels and dedicate the merit to the
associations supporting them so that they have
blessings to help
them in the competition.
Therefore, Yen always tells everyone that
we have people we support,
and we do everything we can to help them achieve
their wishes. For example, when
we support the Sangha at
Ba Vang Temple, we
help the monks with their work
so they can practice their faith. That's what
we do as members of the association. So if...  If
someone tries to disrupt something, we stand
up and say
no. That's why there are
people who contribute to this cause and
people who contribute to that cause. If
you contribute more merit to one person, they
will avoid the opposition
from others. That's the
principle of the interconnectedness between people. There's
also the principle of cause and effect between people and the spiritual realm. That's why there are so
many people who support and protect others. They often
tell everyone to make offerings to the
Three Jewels, dedicating that merit to the
gods and spirits, and dedicating that merit to
those who support them so that they may
increase their merit and opportunities to study Buddhist Dharma.
Because studying Buddhist Dharma gives them
great potential, and they can then contribute to your work.
In all our affairs,
we all know that in
this realm we interact with
many beings: the heavenly realm, the
human realm, the animal realm, and the realm of hungry ghosts.
We interact with many beings, so from
past lives to this life,
if we create enmity...  For anyone, if they
have a karmic connection, they will seek revenge.
If they have a negative karmic connection, they will seek revenge. But if they have a positive karmic connection,
they will wholeheartedly
support you. Therefore, giving will lead to
receiving when we have the right conditions.
We also read many
stories, for example, about someone releasing a
turtle, and after a long time, the turtle
came to meet that person. The turtle couldn't actually
see that person; it was due to the
power of karma. The power of
karma is that because this person saved someone,
that person had good fortune, and the power
of karma caused the turtle to
swim to that place at that exact
time, and when it encountered that person in distress and
they saved them, the law of cause and effect was true: saving an animal leads to being
saved by that animal, or being
saved by all places. But if that animal exists, it will
still come to save you according to the flow of karma. There's
another story, about a monk I
read, but I've forgotten his name.
Before, he released a parrot
and also gave it refuge in the Three Jewels. Then,
on the day he passed away, the parrot...
It flew from somewhere and landed on the
coffin of Master Thế. His disciples
said that the parrot was released because Master Thế
had previously initiated it into Buddhism. That is,
someone brought it to him,
and he released it. And on the day Master Thế
passed away, it flew there according to the karmic cycle of gratitude;
it wasn't
hiding there every day, but had gone somewhere else.
Therefore, we all meet again through the power of
karma, so we
do good deeds. Surely there is divine protection! [
Applause] [
Music]
[Music]